back
1972 a star was born in fact a car was
born the Volkswagen Golf now 38 years on
the mark 7 Volkswagen Golf is here and
this is it and let's just talk about the
numbers shall we so in those 38 years
twenty nine million Volkswagen goals
have found homes and in the UK 1.6
million so it's a pretty important
market for Volkswagen in terms of size
this car is 56 millimeters longer than
the old one about that I think the
wheelbase is 59 millimeters longer
probably about that it's 13 millimeters
wider we spent that and 28 millimeters
lower so it's pretty much golf sized the
boot is 30 litres larger than the old
car but crucially the weight is a
hundred kilos left and that's part of
the advanced chassis technology which
I'll tell you about in a little bit the
most important figure of the lot though
is the price and that's pretty unusual
these days because this new golf at
least the entry-level model is no more
expensive than the one it replaces and
model for model the engines have changed
the specs have changed and equipment
levels tend to have gone up this car is
good value compared to the old one
that's pretty rare these days it's let's
just take a quick look I pull over and
see if it still looks like a golf
so let's take a look around shall we yep
it's definitely a golf okay so it's a
little bit conservative out there but
maybe that's the Boris Johnson in me but
in here are you going to be spending
most of your time it is an absolute
delight the quality is a thing that will
hit you first you've got the squishiest
of squishy plastics even some of the
plastics lower down the sort of plastics
you might expect to find in the touchier
surfaces on other cars the driving
position is really good got to mention
these seats the Volkswagen Golf
Volkswagen is keen to tell us is a very
back friendly car from the lower lip
height of the boot of the back to these
seats which have won some awards on the
back accounts or somewhere but they
really are quite comfortable the view
for these great nice clear dials a TFT
display screen and controls on the
steering wheel there's an ergonomic
howler can you believe from Volkswagen
on the right all the controls for the
multifunction display and the audio
system on the left its the cruise
control but down here on the left you
also get the volume controls they should
be over there on the right with the
audio stuff never mind I can forgive it
for that because you also get this
lovely touch screen on higher models
it's sometimes a an expensive option but
I think it's worthwhile particularly
this 8 inch version because as you move
your finger towards the screen it senses
that you're there and the menus come up
absolute delight this high-gloss finish
is from the GT spec cars you'll also be
able to get an S nnse and I reckon
you're probably going to get a very
similar level of quality you've got all
the functionality and the connectivity
that you expect
I've managed to connect my my new iPhone
5 through to the the Bluetooth system so
you can actually play some of the latest
sounds you weren't supposed to see that
bit there might let's have a look in the
back
so in the back here is me a big bloke
sitting behind me although clearly I'll
be in two places at once there's plenty
of knee room slightly more than before
decent amount of shoulder room here I
have reckoned three across the back
shouldn't be too much of a problem and
that's for head room I could probably
wear a bowler hat in here so as we've
said the boot is more back friendly as
well with a lower loading lip than
before and 30 litres more space in the
boot and these things these partial
shelves but the bane of my life because
you take them out you've got nowhere to
put him
but Volkswagen have thought of
everything and underneath this first
boot floor is a handy place for the
parcel shelf to go what's more the rear
seats split 60/40 they can fold flat at
the touch of a button
great this new golf mark 7 is a
technological tour de force not least
because it's based on Volkswagens now
famous MQB platform technology now MP QB
stands for and just let me put my best
German accent on mordioux laughs we have
our cast
thank you and that means the car is both
lightweight and cheaper to build it will
underpin a whole host of Volkswagens
Saudis say it's and scoters in the
future but you can really feel the the
lack of weight in this car it feels more
nimble than the old car it's still not
exactly a sports car door drive but it's
more composed it's more comfortable it's
more refined that the level of wind
noise and road noises is almost
non-existent it's so impressive in such
a small car this cars got a clever 1.4
liter TSI engine inside with 138 brake
horsepower the clever bit is that it
actually shuts two of its cylinders down
when it doesn't need them helping to
save fuel it's quite punchy and refined
as all TS our engines are you can get
another slightly lower powered 1.4 TSI a
couple of 1.2 TSI a 1.6 diesel and a
2-liter diesel coming next year will be
the hot GTI and a bluemotion version
that will do wait for it 88 miles per
gallon that equates to 85 g/km of co2
which is hybrid territory and if you
actually think about the electric cars
and where the power comes from you're
not far from the co2 level of a an
electric car look and this sound leaf
the thing I love about the Volkswagen
Golf is it's a classless car you can
take it to a posh hotel or you can pop
out for fish and chips on a Friday but
this one golf mark 7 it's a magnificent
7 it's a little bit like Coldplay now
they're one of the world's biggest bands
hugely popular and by all accounts
they're a great band not necessarily to
my taste but they sell records in huge
numbers and the Gulf it's gonna be a
huge success and it is a truly truly
great car